Snatchers appear to be highly mutated yet humanoid creatures.
The entirety of its back side is ripped open, sprouting a mass of undulating writhing tentacles from its spine and rectum.
Its chest and stomach are completely hollowed out, but when it tries to grab a prisoner a mass of tentacles spring from their abdomen to grab them.
Their heads are mutilated, and protruding from it are multiple tentacles.
It is larger than a Striker but slightly smaller than a Giant.

Snatchers share the Striker's tendency of moving as a quadruped, but will briefly stand up on two legs when attacking.
It has similar armour to that found on other unique enemies, and those areas of its body are resistant to damage.
In the case of the Snatcher it will take one-fifth of the normal damage when it is shot in armoured areas.

They can spawn during alarm scans, error waves, and from events triggered by performing certain other actions.
As a special enemy, they are only scripted to spawn on a small number of alarms/events, such as completing the terminal command in ALT://R5A2's secondary
or their introduction during the room scan of R7C1.

They can not be found sleeping.

The Tank is the most heavily mutated creature yet, and bears little resemblance to anything human.
The majority of its mutations occur on its body, giving it a cone shaped, bulbous appearance.
Unlike other enemies, it appears to have three heads which all attack individually with long flesh appendages.
It is bigger than the Giant and has dark spikes aligned on its torso and heads, similar to the Charger.
It is similar to the Mother in that its head and front are armored, negating damage from gunfire.
It has multiple tumors on its back which serves as its only vulnerability. 

The Tank has a lot of health, and it is only vulnerable to damage via the tumors on its back.
The multiple orifices on its upper body allow it to target and attack several players at once with its ranged attacks.
It can also punch players who get too close.

The Tank will try to keep a short distance between itself and players and hide its backside.
It can use its ranged attacks while moving around, but its attack takes longer to hit compared to other enemies.
Its punch attack deals more damage than its ranged attack, and is as fast as a Charger's or Hybrid's, making it very risky should one attempt to approach it.

Although the Tank usually moves very slowly, it can charge at the players, especially if they are too far away. 