Dusk takes place in and around the fictitious rural town of Dusk, Pennsylvania. 
A huge network of "Lovecraftian ruins" is discovered underneath a section of farmland, which attracts the attention of the government.
Military personnel and scientists establish research labs and factories in the town in an attempt to harness the magic of the ruins.
Much of the research team soon fall victim to a series of demonic possessions and industrial disasters, which force the remnants of the team out of the town.
A large perimeter wall is built around the town, sealing it off from the outside world.
The player takes the role of a nameless treasure hunter ("Dusk Dude" or "The Intruder"), who has heard rumors that hidden riches exist within the sealed town.
The treasure hunter is apprehended by the town's denizens, brought to a secluded farmhouse, and impaled onto a meathook.

The Foothills, the first episode, is largely set in the country outskirts around Dusk's perimeter wall.
After the protagonist escapes from the farmhouse, he travels across a variety of rural environments such as swamps, barnyards, cornfields, and sawmills.
After breaching the perimeter wall and entering the town, the protagonist uncovers an underground passageway, which ultimately leads him to an industrial zone on the outskirts of the city.

The object of Dusk's gameplay is to reach the exit of the level, while surviving all hazards on the way.
Such hazards include hostile enemies such as robed cultists, demonic livestock, sentient scarecrows, and possessed soldiers.
The player has access to a variety of weapons, including dual-wielded sickles, dual pistols, dual single-barrel shotguns, a double-barrel "super shotgun",
an assault rifle, a hunting rifle, a magic crossbow, a mortar, a magic sword, and a weapon called the "Riveter" that shoots exploding rivets.
A unique mechanic of Dusk is the unlocked rotational-axis, allowing the player an additional degree of rotation whilst in midair, which grants the ability to perform front and back-flips.